It is not always possible for the common people to visit remote jungles or famous national parks to watch various animals. It is very difficult to spot all of these animals in their natural habitats. Also, it is very dangerous for people to take their children for forest safaris to watch animals, birds, reptiles, etc. So, they prefer visiting a zoo, and it is very entertaining for them to watch various animals in the zoo, with all the protection.
There is a wide variety of animals, birds, and beasts that are kept in cages in a zoo. Zoo also keeps animals of rare species. Many animals and birds are brought from foreign lands. This gives the visitors an opportunity to watch such animals and birds of rare species brought from foreign lands, which they could have never seen otherwise.
An African lion, a kangaroo from Australia, the gorilla, the chimpanzee, the zebra, the white tiger, the white peacocks, the polar bear, the different varieties of parrots and parakeets, the huge pythons, or the giant crocodiles all of these amazing animals from so many different terrains and climatic zones are nurtured and kept in a zoo.
Zoos are in fact helping to save such animals and birds that may become extinct in this world. The species that are being threatened or endangered get to be saved in the zoo. There are almost a thousand species of animals, birds, and beasts that are kept in the zoo. Some of the zoos take up breeding culture, specifically captive breeding. This is a huge help in preserving the endangered species, which prevents them from becoming extinct.
These zoos and their maintenance actually show that mankind has an immense love for animals. Man cannot ignore the fact that these animals, birds, reptiles, and beasts are a part of nature. People get to see the variety of animals that exist on this earth. People get to interact, learn and grow with these species of animals.
Visiting a zoo brings human beings closer to these living beings. It makes human beings develop a liking for animals and birds. They get to learn so much about these animals too. Zoos have an aspect of geographical importance as well. They play a vital role in uniting and educating different communities. When we as visitors watch a species of an animal brought from a foreign land, we get to learn about how and where these animals live, about the climate, and the habitat in which they thrive naturally.
The maintenance of a zoo is a huge task. Animals, birds, reptiles, and fishes, from foreign lands with different climatic conditions are to be kept in such surroundings, climate, and temperature that matches that of their natural habitat. If that arrangement is not done properly these animals would not survive. The tigers or lions need to have a waterbody to cool themselves in hot summers. A gorilla or a chimpanzee needs trees and lush green lands to roam around.
All these animals also need to be fed according to their original tastes and appetites. A leopard, a lion, or a tiger has to be served its due quantity of raw meat for every meal. A gorilla or a monkey should be served a vegetarian diet. There are some animals that are to be fed with fish. The python is capable of devouring a whole goat and so, it should be fed accordingly, without harming any other living being around it.
Visiting a zoo is not only fun, but it also teaches us a lot of things. It gives us immense knowledge about the habits and tastes of various animals, beasts, and birds. A zoo needs to have its own medical staff and veterinary doctors who are qualified, efficient, and competent. The animals in the zoo are affected by many diseases. If these diseases start spreading, they might prove to be fatal to the zoo as a whole. Sometimes these animals undergo major surgeries and treatments for the ailments. All of it has to be taken care of in a zoo.
We visitors, at times, cause a great deal of risk to the lives of these animals and birds. Out of excitement, to feed the animals, we throw food in plastic bags to the animals inside their cages. The animals tend to swallow the plastic bags along with the food. The plastic gets stuck in their intestines and causes serious problems, and can even result in death sometimes. Along with this, to get some entertainment, the visitors sometimes risk their own lives. Out of curiosity, the visitors try playing around with wild animals, which, if triggered, can become violent.
The visitors coming to zoos, mainly children, should be properly oriented and refrain from such activities. The zoo authorities also have to take care of the mental health of the animals. The animals may develop stereotypic behaviors or even die prematurely if not taken care of properly. Thus, zoological parks help us learn, grow and have fun. They help us bring human beings closer to nature. We get to understand and live God's beautiful creations through these parks.
